um hello and welcome to today's episode
of the firei data space on boarding
session um today I will talk about how
to deploy a fiber data space connector
um my name is jeffan I'm senior software
engineer at
fodes and probably some of you already
know me from the presentation about
decentralized identity and access
management in a fire data space
connector I will refer to some of those
this stuff today but it's not really a
precondition that you have seen it might
help to understand some things
better um okay let's have a short uh
look on what we want to do today um I
will start with some let's call it
preconditions so uh essentially what we
um expect to be in place before we start
to deploy the fire data space
connector um then uh after this uh let's
say more theoretical part we will um go
to the interesting parts of actually
deploying a fiber data space connector
um first by setting up the trust anchor
then deploying a data space connector
for a consumer then deploying a data
space connector for a provider and in
the end also verifying the system um the
idea is that after the presentation
every one of you should be able to set
up data space
connector according to your use case and
also very ify that it's actually
running okay then yeah let's start with
um let's say Rec capula what the fire
data space connector actually is as most
of you hopefully now already know the
fire data space connector is using
microservice architecture and is
therefore assembled by a couple of
services that together then form data
space connector so we have a couple of
components for authorization
we have some components that have to
take care about the authentication we
have components for data data transfer
control we have some contract management
and catalog services and we obviously
have our data
services all of those components can be
enabled and dis disabled
independently um very much depending on
the use case you're having at hand and
what you actually need from your data
space connector one of the goals of the
fire data space connector was to to
actually reuse existing open source
components so we did not want to um
reimplement the wheel um but rather rely
on components that they're already well
maintained well developed and um
established in uh in a number of systems
and just implement the components that
are more or less missing to fulfill a
full data space connector and another
thing that we also had in mind when we
were building the data space connector
and uh uh let's say deployment recipes
is that since it's an open source uh
component we have to support various
Target environments so be it a public
Cloud environment be it an on premise
system or some hybrid cloud system where
you have something running in the cloud
or on on premise system or even some um
let's call it more Edge systems where
you have a restricted level of
resources now um what requirements does
this give to our deployment recipes
obviously we need some uh solutions for
the internal and external
networking in every micro service
architecture you have the um the problem
to solve on how the services can find
each other and how they can address each
other in a standardized fashion um this
is what I would call with um internal
networking uh we also obviously need
some um external access to our data
space connector because if let's say a
data provider wants to offer its
services um somebody has to have the
ability to reach it through the public
internet so we also need to support that
then
obviously um we have to have um support
for configurable deployments um we want
to uh we want to have this modularity of
the data space connector therefore we
also need this um on a deployment level
s can you please mute each uh
everyone some body is not
muted okay thank
you um therefore we need uh some support
for configuration of those
deployments um beside that we also want
uh to integrate not only the open source
components itself that are already
existing but also their deployment
recipes because essentially everything
that already exists and is well
maintained um reduces the the
maintenance work for ourself but also um
improves the over all quality of the
data space connector because we then can
rely on already production tested
um uh yeah
recipes and as the last point which is
important especially to support
different environments uh we need a
certain level of abstraction of
infrastructure so we cannot really um
provide data space connector deployments
for every single different Target
environment therefore we need to
abstract them in way um provide one that
is um feasible for most mostly all of
them and therefore they uh can just
connect through the abstraction of the
infrastructure okay how did we decide to
solve that um most of you already know
that um the fiber data space connector
let's say default deployments are
targeting kubernetes as the um container
orchestration and we're also using Helm
for our deployment um why do we use
contra cubern
obviously because of the um requirements
I mentioned before um it allows us to
abstract the way the infrastructure to
standardized apis it supports the
internal networking that we want through
its uh software defined
networking um it provides various
options for external access to the
cluster which is somewhat easy to
control and configure and which also Pro
where also is a lot of documentation
available already in Internet um
kubernetes is an open source component
and wellmaintained it's a part of the
cncf graduated program so there's is
used in various production environments
and can't just be trusted and there are
also various managed or self-hosted
options available to actually use
kubernetes um and we also use Helm which
um is essentially a package manager for
uh kubernetes deployments um it allows
us flexible configuration and
configuration
management um it also relies on Val
established tools like mustache for
example in terms of templating and uh
principles like providing same defaults
only over what is required to keep the
actual configuration
small or um a proper dependency
management and like kubernetes it's also
an open source project which is part of
the cncf graduated program therefore
it's also something that really can be
trusted in production
environments um just a couple of more
words to kubernetes for those that um
don't know much about it yet so
kubernetes is an open source container
orchestration platform that automates
deployment scaling and management of
containerized applications it supports
different environments such as on
premise tenters public clouds and hybrid
setups we already can uh cross a lot of
passwords here already that we had in
our
requirements but just to summarize again
um kubernetes brings a service Discovery
and load balancing so that the
individual microservices can connect
each other and that we can balance the
traffic through them not only through
the services but also through the whole
cluster depending on the load it
provides us some selfhealing and restart
capabilities of the containers and
services itself so that we can increase
the overall resilience of our system
which is quite important for
microservice architecture it abstracts
away the infrastructure most notably on
the computation the storage the
networking and therefore allows us to
reuse the same recipes in different
environments yeah and that's just well
established and widely used so you can
find um documentation everywhere about
it you can also find essentially people
that that can do it for you so it's not
uh let's say a niche product um but it
is more or less an industry standard
already um similar for similar um about
Helm so Helm is a package manager for
kubernetes that simplifies deployment
and configuration of applications and
services it uses preconfigured templates
of kubernetes resources enabling users
to Define install and upgrade their
application um what does it mean so Helm
chart essentially is a set of kubernetes
resources that are provided as mustache
templates um that means the the usual
resources that you know from kubernetes
so let's say deployment yaml a service
yaml Etc is a extended with the
capabilities of mustache which allows to
replace values inside those template
files a kubernetes um chart contains
defaults um always with the target to
allow install in standard fashion with
very minimal additional configuration um
that will help us uh trim down the
configuration that we need in our actual
data space connector when we deploy it
one important thing for us is that it
also natively supports versioning of the
recipes
so you can uh install a certain version
of the helm chart instead of running
into risk of basically getting
incompatible updates when you reinstall
uh a
chart it also allows us to reuse of
existing charts as dependencies so if we
want to reuse a component like for
example keycloak as part of our data
space connector we don't have to write
our own Helm chart and deployment
recipes but instead can use um existing
wants as a dependency and it also
supports repackaging of a set of charts
to Umbrella charts which is something
that is very important for us and what
we heavily use for the data space
connector as you will see in the next
minutes now some additional operational
considerations which I will just U
mention now because that's not really in
the scope of deploying the data space
connector um but it's um always
important in ter terms of actually
operating your connector or essentially
every service that you have so for
monitoring data space connector
components provide endpoint the for
example promia scrape endpoints so that
you can integrate it in some kind of
standard fashion
monitoring um due to the use of
kubernetes you could also get all the
standard resource monitoring or resource
usage monitoring that you're probably
already um used to and in general you
should just integrate it with your
existing monitoring so the data space
connector itself doesn't have specific
requirements for
monitoring it just tries to offer the
standard capabilities of uh let's say
modern microservice architecture more or
less the same is true for logging um one
point is that the log levels can
essentially be configured for each
individual component of the datas space
connector which is quite important
because um due to the leev number of
microservice it could become quite noisy
if you um just change the lock level on
a global level um essentially all
components support structured Chas and
logging so it could integrate with most
of the standard lock um Lock aggregators
And as the monitoring you should just
integrated with your existing
login and yeah I somewhat repeat myself
alerting is very similar but should be
just based on the monitoring logging
that we did set up that you did set up
and you should integrate it with your
existing systems there are no really
additional requirements for data space
connector but you could use tooling like
a service service mesh if you have such
concrete requirements for example to um
apply Mutual Tails inside the cluster
but that's something that is very
individual to the use case you have for
the data space
connector okay now that we did somehow
set up the preconditions I would
say um I would go into the more or less
details of the fiber data space
connector um we have essentially one
single one single deployment recipe for
the fire data space connector which is a
an umbrella hand chart called the data
space connector hand chart which is more
more less just um assembled by charts
from the fiber hel charts repository and
the bami hel charts repository in the
fiber hel charts Repository
you can mostly find the components that
were developed and are maintained by the
fiber foundation in fiber
community and in the vietnami H charts
repositories vietnami hel charts are one
of the biggest um open source
repositories for H charts
available and it contains uh a huge
number of charts for let's say
um how you say um some of the widely
used open source components
um that you can find in various
microservice architectures like for
example key closed or various data um
databases um we decided to use all the
charts from that um repository because
it makes it easier from a
configurational standpoints they fall
they all follow the same
principles they are all um
wellmaintained
and so it makes it easier in the end to
understand the uh the config duration of
the data space connector and its sub
charts um if we just use two of those uh
two two hel repositories instead of
using for example individual charts for
each open source
component um the umbrella hand chart is
EXT extended with some convenience
functionality um that just makes it
easier to configure the data space
connector it allows us to disable all uh
individual sub charts to actually have
the modularity that we wanted
and you could also um exchange
individual parts of the datas space
connector like databases or API gateways
we do automatically test the data space
connector on each uh change in k3s
cluster we also tested it on I call
vanilla cuetes um environments it also
contains support for open shift
installations um yeah so it's U let's
say very flexible and we also have a
minimal chart for a trust anchor
containing in the repository so that we
can actually set up a full data space
just with the charts that we
provide now let's take a short look to
the concrete chart
repository uh in the end it's only a
GitHub repository which contains two
folders one for the trust anchor and one
for the data space connector um let's
have a look into the data space
connector chart this is the standard
layout um that everyone who knows Helm
already knows but it's in the end
standard layout of a Helm chart it
always contains a chart yam um which
contains information about the chart
itself a value H file which contains the
default values for our um chart and it
contains a templates
file which contains the actual
kubernetes Resources with the templating
inside um let's have a look how this
templating for example looks
like so we have the standard um
um standard fields of a kubernetes um
resource like it's kind version Etc and
then we have the mustache templating
which is um in the end then replaced
from the values inside our default
values or from the configuration that we
provide on
installation more important for U the
data space connector is the chart yaml
because as I mentioned it's an umbrella
chart which is in the end only sampled
by various already existing
components and we've just pulled them in
as dependencies so we have a a list of
dependencies here like for example a
postrest database that can be
configurative um enabled or disabled and
we tell the repository where it's pulled
from so this is um like most uh from in
the style of most other dependency
Management Systems be it m mpm or
whatever you think about um you define
where the where to pull the dependency
and in which version you want it that's
what we also do here if you go through
it you will see everything comes either
from the bami charts repository or from
the fiber Helm charts repository I will
go through the um details of the of the
sub charts uh later in the
presentation now that we have uh have an
idea about the data space connector
itself um I want to recapitate what the
data space actually looks like in fare
um most of you hopefully already notice
uh this picture from the IM session so
um we have a data space is formed of
various participants um in different
roles like a data provider like a data
consumer or a Marketplace
itself and the difference between those
participants in the end is just what
parts of the data space connector they
have running and what they want to
achieve with a data space connector a
data provider usually wants to serve
some data to participants of the data
space data consumer usually just wants
to access data and all of them needs to
have some kind of a trust relationship
which is uh basically the verifile data
registry or multiple of them um that
they um trust in trust uh put trust into
and the verifiable data registry is what
we have here as a trust
anchor um as the trust anchor hand chart
as part of our deployment
here um and therefore we also will start
now with the deployment of the trust
anchor because essentially just
deploying a data space connector without
being connected to any trust anchor um
doesn't make sense because um if you
don't have a common trust relationship
there is nothing you can do for your
data space connection or you don't have
a data space
here okay now let's start with the trust
anchor um a trust anchor is relatively
easy in the way that we deployed here in
our fa data space um connector part or
in our um demo data space I would
call um it essentially only has two fun
to provide two functionalities one is
provide the global trusted participants
list through the EPC trusted issuers
registry API
um which is something you might recall
from the IM session um where every
participant can check if another
participant is also part of the data
space and we also need a functionality
to actually register new participants so
if somebody wants to join our data space
we also need the capability to add it to
the global participants list um that's
the requirements that we have to our
trust anchor and that's what we first
have to solve
here now from a deployment VI um how do
we solve that um we install The fber
Trusted issues list which actually
provides two apis one is the ABS trusted
issuers API that we require for our
participants to check if another one is
already a participant and which also
offers the so the so-called trusted
issues list
API um that we implemented for
registering new participants to our
trusted issuers
registry um in addition to store the the
information about those um issuers The
Trusted issuers list uses my SQL
database as a storage backend for the
participants um you can either deploy it
as part of the connector you could also
use the database as a service um
offering somewhere um but in this demo
today we will just deploy the my SQL
together with our Trust aner
Services okay then let's go to the first
part of our
deployment um what I already prepared
today is um is a cluster that I can use
for deploying this is actually an
installation of a k3s cluster because
that's more that's just faster and more
reliable for a demo um but overall you
could use the exact same um recipes to
deploy it to essentially at the other
kubernetes
cluster um let's have a first look on
what we have running inside this cluster
um I hope you
can it's big enough for you to
see so this cluster is um pretty
standard right now we have a cordin
running to have our Central um the our
our let's say cluster internal domain uh
DNS available and we are using taik here
as an incress controller but um we also
not just um bound to traffic you could
also use an engine X and ha proxy you're
still seeing the slides that's not
good then let
me I thought i' share my screen not only
the ah the entire screen
sorry now you should see it okay sorry
thank you for mentioning
it okay so now then again um you can see
here that's what we currently have
running in our local system that's the
um cluster internal DNS
system and this is our inest controller
um nothing more running yet into the
cluster one thing that I will also
install um which makes our cluster
more um let's say realistic is a storage
provider um that's something that you
have essentially already installed in
every kubernetes cluster so um I use a
local storage provider here which allows
the kubernetes cluster to store
something on the local disk if you for
example have a kubernetes cluster
running in Google Cloud you will already
have stuff like an HTT um storage
provider or an SSD storage provider um
that you can just use for everything
that you want to store that's something
that's more cluster related um that you
should in the end talk about with your
cluster
administrators okay um but now to the
more interesting Parts how do we deploy
our trust
anchor um as a first
step we will have to add our fiber datab
base connector repository um as a repo
to our data to our local hel
installation um doing this is um
essentially one command um which is Helm
repo at then we can add the name of the
of the repo that we want to add and we
have to give its address and then
repository itself is more or less just
an a yaml file which contains the names
of the charts the version and where to
find them and all of this is then
resolved internally by Helm Helm itself
let's add this okay I already have it
installed in my local
system and then we can move to the trust
anchor folder
um which at the moment only contains a
value file this Val file actually
contains our um specific
configuration for this installation of
the um of the data space connector um it
has to follow the the format of our
default value the default value usually
also contains the um documentation for
it
and we only have to provide the values
here that are actually different to
those that are already in the in the
default y um I actually made this one
for trust an a little more verbish to
give you give you a better in um idea
about the actual
contents but in general they could be
quite small for the data space connector
because we could just leave the defaults
out um we start here with an entry which
is called generate passwords that's
something very specific to the dat space
connector since we're connecting a lot
of components and they only have to
communicate internally like for example
the database and the application itself
um we enable the generation of passwords
for for example the database it's the
database connection inside the cluster
so the passwords do never have to leave
the cluster in that case which is quite
um easy or quite um comfortable to keep
the password secure because if they
don't need to leave the cluster you
don't have to store anywhere
else um if you use that they are already
distributed um to the my SQL and to The
Trusted issuers list through their
default configuration if you don't want
to do this um you could also use some
mechanisms like existing Secrets or like
something or something like a vault that
injects the secrets inside the cluster
um that's highly flexible but for such I
would say Advanced configuration you
should always try to consult the
um the chart or the original chart
itself in this case the vietnami hel
chart for my
SQL
um the MySQL itself is the second
component that we can see inside this
yaml file first we actually enable it so
we want to deploy it as part of our
trust anchor and then we have the one uh
configuration that we actually need here
we have the set the storage class for
the Persistence of the my SQL um we use
here the local PA storage that I in for
this cluster but since the storage
classes are quite
um quite related to the cluster itself
and what's available in the cluster um
you most likely need to set a storage
class for your cluster here also too um
and it might be something different than
local path but yeah as mentioned that
depends on the
cluster okay then I inserted here some
of the already existing defaults um this
is something you usually don't have to
provide here and I left it out in the
other values files that you will see
later um but those are some of the
configurations that um are set for our
trust anchor here like for example we
give the MySQL a let's say a stable name
so that we can address it from our
trusted issuers list we reference the
generated
secret and we also provide the script
that initializes the the default
database schema that we want to use for
our trusted issuers list
now with that configuration for the
MySQL we also need the actual
configuration for our trusted issues
list um similar to the MySQL we have to
enable it or essentially they are
enabled by default but I think it's more
let's say um easy to read if you
explicitly also enable the components
because then you have a better view on
the actual configuration of your data
space
connector then because our trusted
issuers list should be available to the
participants in the cluster we need to
configure an Ingress the Ingress is
basically the configuration of the
public facing addresses of our dataspace
connector and uh it's best practice in
the kubernetes world and in Helm charts
to disable ingresses by default
therefore we have to explicitly enable
it here um it's disabled by default
usually because it should prevent you
from opening um services to the public
internet without being aware of that
this follows the standard um way of
configuring um ingresses in kubernetes
so you define the host here and the host
address um I use an internal nip iio
address here so that I can use it from
my local network
then um so on this address The Trusted
issues registry API will be available
and to allow us also the configuration
here um through the trusted issues list
API we also enabled this Ingress um
under a different address in generally
you could also configure TLS for your um
hosts here um but since I'm running it
locally and I don't have a valid
certificate installed here um I don't
configure TLs but all the charts
obviously also um support configuration
of
TLS similar to the database I I included
the defaults here which is mostly also
giving it a fixed name to be addressable
by other services and then configuring
the database connection if you use the
defaults for the MySQL and for the
trusted issues list you can completely
leave this
out but just to be uh to make you aware
of the options you have you can
configure this to be persistent or even
run it only in memory then you configure
the name of the database user you could
um provide the the secret that actually
contains the database
passwords um we have to provide the host
of the database um also as part of the
default configuration and also the name
of the schema to be used by the database
configuration by The Trusted issuers
list now with that value
files um we can start to deploy our
trust anchor um we could use directly
Helm install here then it will use the
data space connector uh the chart um
render the the templates to actual
kubernetes resources and apply them to
the cluster um for deback reason it
sometimes uh it helps to actually renle
them locally which is something I will
now do here um so we say Helm
template then we refer to our data space
connect repository and to the chart that
we want to install which is the trust
aner we also say we want
version 220 which is wrong it should be
020 sorry
um so we want this version of the trust
anchor here then we hand over our value
yaml file that I showed you here which
uh essentially overwrites the entries of
our defa default value
yaml um we provide a name template so
that all of the resources follow a
certain name standard and we tell that
this should go to a certain name space
inside our cluster now if we do this
it will end up with the random templates
inside this
folder where then can see the MySQL
chart and The Trusted issuers chart
rended
out and it will contain the actual um
kubernetes resources that will be
applied to the cluster um who's familiar
with kubernetes will
probably um recognize them already so
this for example is a config map which
go which follows our Nam schema which
contains a certain number of contains
the namespace and then essentially the
configuration that our data that our
MySQL will use it's very similar for The
Trusted issuers list um where we have
the deployment which configures our
trusted issuers list container and tells
which image to be used also tells where
the um where the image actually is uh is
accessible so under 880 for the HP port
for example it provides some health
health and liveness
checks and then for example the
configuration to our data space all of
this is now um automatically put in from
within the values file similarly you can
see here with the iness configuration
that I talked about so this will create
an Ingress to the cluster which then
will be evaluated by the Ingress
controller and be made available to the
public internet through our kubernetes
cluster it tells essentially to use this
host and um make available this path and
for what is to the service of our
trusted issues
registry
okay now we obviously also have to apply
it to the
cluster um I will create a nam space for
our trust anchor so that it's easier
to to separate inside the cluster and
see so to now create the names bace
trust anchor inside our cluster but
that's mostly depending on how you want
to organize your cluster so you're free
to do whatever we could either now um
apply the rendered files or we could use
directly hel to install the data space
uh the the chart into our cluster the
command is essentially the same like you
have full toown template um you provide
a name of the of the um deployment you
want to make um you reference the
repository and the ACT Char inside it
you have to provide the version and then
you offer it the values that you want to
be that you want to use with it now
let's install
it okay make this a bit bigger so you
can see now this is um starting to
install um we now can take a look at it
actually is going to be installed inside
our
cluster what you can see here is that it
first has to deploy the um the My SEL to
be used by The Trusted issuers registry
which is the reason that our trusted
issu itself is still in a crash new
because the trusted issuers registry can
only start once the trusted demise SQL
is available um that's not unusual for a
kubernetes um system that you just let
the um let the service restart until the
database is available so I think after
about 60 seconds it will be
available and we will have our trust uh
trusted issues registry available once
all of this has
resolved um in order to save some time I
will now switch back to
the to the presentation um because we
have two other charges to deploy to have
our actual data space
running um the second one is um the
actual data consumer the consumer itself
has then is in contrast to the trust
anchor really uh participant of the data
space and will have to install its own
installation of the data space connector
as a consumer you don't have to Too Much
responsibilities inside um our data
space um if you want to access data of
another of another provider you will
have
to uh the ability to authenticate
yourself and then go to the datas so
what we need to fulfill this is um an
issuer of verifi credentials that could
um provide the credentials to our users
or Services which will most likely store
them in some kind of wallet and we also
will need our organization to be
registered at the verifiable data
registry as a valid participant which
means we need to register ourself at the
trust anger we deployed right
now how does it look in an actually uh
deployment and the fiber data space
connector um we using keycloak as the
default issuer for verifiable Connect
ential um we using version 26 here and I
think everything above should be able to
use in the future
too um the key clog needs a realm to be
configured for ID for verifiable
credentials issues issuing um we need
some users and roles configured and also
the credentials that it should issue um
what we also need as part of our
deployment is obviously a database for
keylog um keylo by default uses a post
SQL which in our curent we will also
deploy as part of the cluster um but you
could also again use database as a
service here one important thing is that
we as a consumer organization also need
an identity and some key material for
the organization and we need to provide
the identity to our verifiable data
registry and register ourself there and
we need to provide the key material to
our issuer so that we can identify
ourself if you remember from the um from
the IM IM session um the data space
connector currently supports three types
of identity did key D web and DLC and
since we're now deploying here a local
example I will use a did key for the
consumer
organization which is essentially the
first thing that we will now do to
deploy our consumer uh as you can see
here now everything is running we have a
working trust anchor
available and now we will switch to our
consumer
um I will also create a namespace again
for our
consumer and then I will first start
with creating an identity for our
consumer um did key creating did key
essentially means we generate a private
key and a public key for it we package
the public key into a into a key store
so that we can support the key store to
our key cloak so that it can be used for
um sign the credentials and we will also
create the actual key did key from the
public key so that we can use it as our
identity for our uh
consumer I will just follow the steps
that I noted here you can read all of
this also in detail later so I will not
go into all details but first we have to
create a private
key um you can see all of them here so
we have the private key here then we
will create the public key from
that public key now we will create a
certificate based on that for
our and certificate for our um
participant and now we will take all of
this and package it into a key store
that we can use for
our um to provide the the the secret
into our cluster
later um now we also have to create a d
key from this um from the public key we
created here um which follows a very
standardized way of um encoding of a
base uh 58 encoding of the key which is
then also prefixed with a key type um in
order to make this a little easier I
created a a little tool called the
helper um which can be used for that I
will download and use it
here so we just provide the key store
and the password to this
tool and it will create a did key that
works together with our private key and
with the public key um we now have to
remember this uh key when we configure
our consumer itself because our consumer
needs to know its own
identity um as a first step to actually
deploy our consumer to the
cluster we have to provide the secret
that we created so our um our key store
which contains the private key for our
for our consumer to the cluster um we
will do this by creating
Sorry by creating a secret inside the
cluster from this uh file uh from our
key store file so the secret inside the
class so will then contain this um this
key key
store um this is the um Cube control
command that we use for it um consumer
identity will be the name used for this
uh secret and we also tell to deploy it
to our namespace consumer um this is
very quick command so we do it here and
now we have the secret in inside our
cluster what we now have to do is to
configure our data space connector for
the consumer um as you've seen there is
not much uh let's say Flesh on a
consumer so we only have the issuer
therefore we can essentially enable all
other com components from the datas
space
connector so we disable the verifier and
it's depend the components it depends on
like the config service and Trust Issues
list um we configure all the compon uh
we disable all the components are used
for
authorization um we disable the data
service because we don't want to offer
data um we also disable team form apis
in the contract management because again
we don't want to offer any data we just
want to consume
it um then we come to the components
that we actually need um our key clo as
an issue obviously needs a database
because somewhere there needs to be the
information stored about for example our
users
um we deploy the post ql here um you
will see that this looks very similar to
the MySQL configuration that we had
before and that's one of the benefits um
of using um the charge from one single
repository so all bitnami Helm charts
essentially follow the same this the
same style of
configuration um so no matter if we
configure the post press or the MySQL
sending the storage class is more or
less always in the same
fashion so we set the storage class to a
local path here again and that's
essentially all configuration that we
need for our post SQL and everything
else is taken from the defaults of the
data space
connector as a second step we have to
configure our keycloak which is probably
the most I would say most complex
configuration of the whole data space
connector um to act as the issuer of
credentials um first we have to
configure the Ingress to the key clo
because obviously our users should be
able to um access it and download their
credentials from it so we configure it
to run under the host name keylo
consumer
12701 n
bio and we configure the connection to
the database this actually is a default
configuration which could also be left
out um yeah but it's you could it also
doesn't hurt to just put it in here um
then we configure a couple of um
so-called extra environment variables
which are quite important for our
keycloak to properly work um we want to
import a realm on default because we um
actually um so you could configure your
key clock also through some front ends
um but especially configuring the open
ID for verifiable credentials issuance
features um is much easier if you go if
you first configure them through the
Chason interfaces this is a quite new
feature of key clo so this not very well
integrated already into the front
ends um therefore we are using the
import realm uh feature of key clo which
has to be provided as an extra argument
and the data space connector itself
provides some already existing templates
for setting up the realm um you will see
how to configure that in probably two
minutes um then we have to actually
enable the open ID for verifiable
credential issuance feature since it's
currently an experimental stage in
keycloak and therefore has to be
explicitly enabled um it will probably
become a a preview feature with the next
key clo version and then hopefully a
full feature within 28 29 uh
version but yeah at the moment it's a
prev feature needs to be explicitly
enabled um this is a configuration that
also depends on how you run your cluster
um it's very common to terminate SSL in
a kubernetes cluster at the edge on the
engress uh controller and that's
something that we have to tell key clo
um because else it would drop every non
htps connection um and therefore won't
work inside our
cluster um then we provide uh the the
password of our um key store here so key
clo needs to be able to open the key
store that we provided as a as a secret
to the cluster and we need to provide it
the store password somewhere somewhat
here
um in the demo I used the blame password
here but you could also provide the
password as a secret to the cluster and
then just reference it entally the same
way that we do it with the admin
password
here then to um give some impression of
how to configure the log level in key
clo you could set this here and I did
set it to info in a production
environment you most likely will rather
have something like more instead to not
flot your um your loog files essentially
and we have to tell key clo under which
host name it runs and then there is the
configuration that we always have to
set um which is the actual identity of
our um of our consumer so this will be
used
to um actually um this will be used as
the issuer of the verifi credentials so
that's why we have to create the
identity first we have to properly
register it and then we have to provide
key clo with this the ID so that it can
use it as the issuer of the verifiable
credentials and our users can actually
authenticate themselves at other
participants we have some additional
configuration here that more or less
only mounts the um the secret uh into
key clog and also the realm that we will
configure in The Next
Step um yeah but uh this is um more or
less standard and does not need to be
changed most of the time
okay now have a look on how the realm is
created so as mentioned it's not um you
don't have to do it that way but I
highly recommend it because it's much
easier than trying to do it through the
apis and through the front
end um we have to tell the realm um
under which address the keycloak is
running because else the front ends
won't work so we have to provide our um
public address
here and our realm has to have a name
like every realm in key clog so if
you're not familiar with keylog itself
um I can recommend to read about it or
essentially just accept that we have to
give the name
here and then we configure um in our
case client roles so uh more or less
which roles um do we as a consumer want
to assign to our users I Define two
roles here one is reader the other is
operator and in this example we are
using the did ID that we configure so
our identity also as the client ID which
could be done through environment
variables so every environment variable
that we provided as an extra and for
could be used as part of our realm
configuration thus if I set this um this
as the ID it will be replaced with the
the ID we provide as an environment
variable once we have the rad configured
we could also configure a user to be
deployed as in key clock I just use one
test user here it actually got the Y
test user and is enabled by default has
an email and a name like typical but
also has a password which I provide in
this case as plain text there are
different types of providing credentials
but that's something you should read in
the configuration of keit
loog and we give it a role inside our
client so actually our test user will
get the role operator um that will be
interesting later when we um actually
get a credential for our
user and then we have to configure a
client itself um the client is the one
that then issues the credential to our
users um most of it is standard
configuration available from keyo so you
could just copy it um one very important
thing is to set the protocol to id4 VC
here because that enables the realm to
issue this credentials
itself and then we will create the
configuration of our verifiable
credentials um this realm itself
supports three types of credentials one
is the user credential the verifiable
credential and the operator
credential all of them have a credential
ID which is set at the second point of
the key and they will have a format um
we currently only support jwd or we only
use JWT verifiable credentials as part
of our um data space connector
installation so we only set the format
for
that and then we can use the protocol
mappers to actually configure what
should be included in the credentials we
have for example a Target role MPP which
would set the roles of our
user inside a credential uh of type
operator credential um we could also
configure which context to be set to the
credentials we could include information
about our user entity credential like
the email address or the name
um or the last name so that we can very
fine gr configure what to be put into
the credential um I just can recommend
to read the documentation of keylog
about that part because you have uh a
high freedom of configuration here but
it could also be a little complicated um
I can tell you that this is currently um
under um let's say gets overhauled in
the next version of key clock and will
be much easier in future versions
um but this is yeah still under the
construction I would say in key clo
itself okay but um that's essentially
all the configuration that we need for
deploying uh our
consumer and um the deployment itself
follows the same way that we used in our
data space uh in the trust anchor um the
only difference is that we now um
address uh a different chart inside our
repository so the repository is still
the data space connector repository but
we now actually take the data space
connector chart um the version that we
want to have installed is the
7170 um and we want to provide the valed
yamas that we have for our consumer here
now let's install
[Music]
it same way as we had before with the
trust
anchor okay now have a look at this um
similar as we have with the trusted
issues registry keycloak will probably
fail once maybe it wait that's slow
enough um but post CR has to be
available first and then key clo will be
available after 50 to 60 seconds
usually one thing that we can already do
is actually register our consumer at The
Trusted issues registry um as you
remember from trust anchor we opened up
the trusted issuers list endpoint
and in order to become a valid
participant we now have to register it
there um this is publicly available here
for uh for demo environment um how
somebody gets onboarded actually to the
trust anchor is something that uh that
the data space needs to be um decided
upon so that's not something we really
could Define beforehand um we will give
some recommendations or some ideas on
how to do it on Thursday and the ongoing
work uh session but for today we just do
the Cur the post command to The Trusted
issues list to add actually our um our
new consumer on our new participant I
have to use to write the ID here or work
later so we will create here and now we
can check that it's actually part of our
trusted issues list
I get a little
nicer is
it it's not very
readable okay I
can and I don't have the pretty fire now
here sorry
um but uh you can see from the result
here that our newed key is now involved
in the trusted issues registry so that
all participants can check it there um
now let's take a look if the key clock
is
running it is and now it should be also
available through our prop end
point which we could access here
okay there is key clock
starting we could proba small we could
open it uh log in with the test
user and actually try to get
credentials so looks
good now we could also try to actually
get a credential this is something I
would now do through the rest API
because that's
um more or less easier than to do it
with um actual wallet and integrated
into our local environment here um so we
are following the rest here um in next
week's session I will go more into the
details of what this script here does
but it essentially follows the open ID
for verifiable credential issuance
protocol and we'll retrieve a credential
from our key clo consumer here
now we can see this is our
credential
and
let's check its contents that actually
it contains what I
promised okay we can see here that it's
issued by the by our
consumer we can see that it contains the
type that we did set up so the operator
credential we can see that contain the
information of our user so it's called
test reader and that it has the role
that we did set up for the operator it
also contains the email so it's
essentially the credential that we
configured in our realm and we were able
to extract it for our test user and
store it in its uh let's call it local
wallet okay now that we have a consumer
we have to go to the let's say
complicated part or more complicated
deployment of the provider because a
provider itself requires a couple of
more services since it wants to offer
actually services to for example our
consumer here um what does it use what
does it require for that um we have to
have the authentication services to
offer actually the oid for verifiable
presentation endpoints so that our user
or our consumer can authenticate itself
with its verifiable
credentials um we need to verifier here
as mentioned um then the verifier
requires this trusted issuers list its
local trusted issuers list and the
credential config service to provide to
get its um authentication
configuration and it needs to be
registered at the verifiable data
registry and connected so that it can
check who are the
participants we need the authorization
Services uh policy enforcement Point
decision point and administration points
to actually enforce and manage policies
we need a data service to actually offer
something um we need the team form the
contract management to offer services
our services and we also need um a data
space config through a wellknown
endpoint to fulfill part of the idsa
protocol so you could essentially check
at the wellknown endpoint what your data
space um connector provides you for the
data
space how do we do this um first
authentication we um used the VC
verifier which is um built and
maintained by the fiber community to
offer you oid for verifiable
presentation
endpoints um we also provide two
Services called credential config
service and trusted issuers list which I
talked in the IM session a little more
about um which are also maintained by
the fiber
Community um they have to have their
storage back end um it could be used the
same instant because both of them use my
SQL um just with their own uh with their
own schemas uh you could also use a
databases service here um because that's
a very standard um
MySQL and uh similar to the consumer we
have to provide the identity and key
material for organization to our
internal services and we have to
register it at the verifiable data
registry authorization for authorization
we are using um essentially two um
already very already well established
open source components um the central
ENT point to our Prov ID data space
connector is an API Gateway called
I6 um I6 is an API Gateway maintained by
um I think mostly maintained by
Rad and it acts as the P for us but we
also use its rooting capabilities to
offer the op my configuration endpoint
from our
verifier and also the data space
configuration endpoint um from a static
file server so that we could fulfill the
uh let's say contract of the data space
to provide the um authentication and
information and also the data space
information um I6 also checks JWT tokens
um that it receives from a user at the
verifi jwk end
point beside that the PDP looks a little
different here in our deployment view um
because we deploy the PDP as a sitec to
the PDP so that they run inside the same
pot um that gives us a little more
performance and makes the deployment
overall easier the PDP is the open
policy
agent which is also a well established
standard compon uh component that we
just uh reuse here um for policy
Administration
point we have our um odl P where you can
manage the policies and they are stored
in the storage pend which is actually a
postresql database again you could also
use a database as a
service and our data service in our demo
environment is uh an NGS I context
broker obviously since fi the data
service um could also be anything else
but we are using an NGS I compliant
broker here um we use Scorpio as part of
our data space connector deployment and
this has to be provided with the postys
as back end I'm currently don't know
about database as a service solutions
for scopio maybe somebody knows U more
about it but it's essentially a post
with um with the post extension and
that's something that scor just needs to
store its entities
in and as the last part of the provider
we also want to have the TM Forum apis
available so that we can offer the
marketplace and Contracting
functionalities um the team form API
that we implementation that we are using
here actually uses an NGS I context
broker storage back end in a data space
connector deployment um we usually also
just reuse the Scorpio we already
have and store team for API entities
also there um the team for
API andp Point needs to be publicly
available obviously because else nobody
could um buy some
services and it's connected with the
so-called contract management which
indicates the TM Forum apis with the um
trusted issuers list of the data space
connector so that um we can
automatically Grant access for um for
participants that bought access to for
example our data service
[Music]
here now let's again have a look how
this looks when we will run
it very similar to the consumer we first
have to create an identity for our
provider I will go very quickly through
this because it's extent essentially
exactly the same steps that we had
before we have to create the key we have
to create the public
key we have to create a certificate for
our provider
um you can see here we have to provide
identity we also have to package it into
a key
store and then create the the ID from
it I made a mistake somewhere hopefully
here
no
so okay now this is now the identity of
our
provider
and we create also a namespace for the
provider and now we can go through the
values y that we will use for our
provider um we will not have as many
disabled components as we had before
um just the key clug because uh in this
case the provider doesn't has to
authenticate itself elsewhere very often
the provable also double down as a
consumer so you might have also a key
clock configured here but we don't need
it in our um case here where we have the
provider just providing data in terms of
authentication um we will have first to
configure a verifier um similar to that
we had before the inquest needs to be
explicitly enabled
and we configure where the incest is
available at uh the verifier is
available at so provider verifier and
then our already well- known
host and we have to configure our
verifier to one connect with our trust
issue trusted issuers registry so it
actually knows um where to ask for
participants and the verifier itself
also needs to know its own
identity which it uses a part of the
authentic
step
um then um we also uh configure the the
the um public address of the verifier
here because it needs to know it to
provide it as part of the openid
configuration that um you have seen in
the um in the
slides and we can also configure it to
connect to our credentials config
service so very much standard not much
to configure um very important important
that we um put in the the uh basically
The Trusted issuers registry address and
also our
identity configuration for the
credential config service is very easy
we just have to enable it everything
could be used from the
defaults um it doesn't even has an
Ingress or have to have an Ingress so we
also don't have to configure anything
here trusted issues list could normally
look the
same I enabled the inas here um because
that makes it easier to show the
demonstration later um but in a normal
environment you won't even have to
enable an Ingress for trusted issuers
list so all of all you have to do is
enable the issuers list
itself both of them share their MySQL
instance so we have to provide a MySQL
here um since everything is also
standard configured in The Trusted
issuers list in the credential config
service we again only have to provide
score storage class to the my
SQL and then everything is configured
there then we can go to the
authorization
Services um one uh important but I think
often Overlook part is our data space
config um which is here enabled I added
the defaults here because um most people
probably don't know what it contains um
but you can um configure what data
models you support as part of your data
space con Factor um what protocols the
data service is available at and what
authentication protocols we are using
this will automatically translated into
uh compliant Jason um document and will
be then offered through development
endpoint then the interesting component
of the authorization essentially is our
rp6 um to make it available publicly we
have obviously to enable the impress
here again um we offer it under this
address uh of of our data
service um to make all subsequent
services available there um then there
is some uh default configuration again
here which I provide which I included um
to give a little more
explanation um we we configure uh a
certain path below our host um to be
served um by a certain service in the
roots of our IPI 6 one of them is the
open ID configuration
um for our data service um because that
fulfills the contract of the data
service to provide it um op my
configuration um we forward all of those
requests to the verifier and we rewrite
the incoming address of wellknown open
ID configuration to the open ID endpoint
uh of configuration endpoint of the
verifier um we do very very much the
same with the data space configuration
um just that we um forward it to the
data space config service which is the
mentioned static fire server and um we
also again rewrite the address and we
set a header on the response to actually
make all of it um actually chasen file
so that our um client will proberly
understand
it and then we have the last ruit which
is actually the most important one of uh
of rp6 here um which is more or less a
catch all so every request to uh to uh
our host that is not one of the two
well-known endpoints will be handled by
this
configuration we configure that those
requests will be forwarded to the data s
Scorpio but only um if they are contain
a JWT token which will be verified at
our verifi
endpoint and if our open policy agent um
actually accepted it as the
PDP um this is is configured to be at
Local Host here because as mentioned uh
the open policy agent is running as a
side card to our API
6 then we can already go to the
configuration of the open policy agent
which again is very small because you
don't have to configure anything you
could just use the defaults
here we have uh the postresql that will
be used by our OD or lpap in the next
step um similar to all databases we only
have to set the store
class then we have to configure our OD
or
lpap which also has to know its own
identity to make actually um to reason
for example about the rules about the
roles and if they are um apply to to
this um
participant and we um open an Ingress
here so that we can configure it in the
demo environment so you don't have to
enable this inas at all time um that
depends again on your internal use
case and at the last step we also have
to configure our data service which is a
Scorpio and as I mentioned it also needs
a a post it needs a postuse um we
provide the preconfigured post SQL um
post SQL here um we only have to set the
storage class
again what we do here is configure
Scorpio to automatically register itself
at the credential config service so that
it already accepts a number of
credentials that we configure
here um but this is also Again part of
the defaults just in this file to make
it visible for
you and as last step we also um enable
the team form apis here again just to
make them publicly
available and the contract management
would also just uses the standard
configuration so in general the
configuration of our even relatively
complex provider relatively small and
could be even smaller than in this
file but uh yeah only to make you aware
of it um now we have to deploy
it we first have to again provide the um
the key of our identity to the cluster
as a secret exactly the same as we did
with the um with the consumer we also
use um more or less the same command
that we use for the consumer for now
deploying our provider just with our new
um provider value file that we have seen
here and as you can now
see it will'll just deploy a couple of
more
components um we will have for example
all of the TM form apis that we have uh
deployed we will have our verifier we
will have the trusted issues list we
have all the components um connected to
I6 which is also using an ETD we have
the contract management um we have the
AUD lpap and we also will have our data
service the data service usually is the
last one to start um overall starting
the provider usually takes one and half
to two minutes so let me continue with
what we have to do also
to connect our uh provider to our data
space which obviously
is registering at at The Trusted issuers
registry same way we did already with
the consumer
now we have also registered at our
trusted issuers registry and both of
them are considered participants of the
data space
um we could check if already a couple of
things are running so right now we are
just waiting
for
Scorpio
y we wait for Scorpio and for the team
AP form API registration to be fulfilled
this is a job that automatically runs
until it once uh finished so the error
is not important here everything else is
already running so that we can already
start with some verification of our data
space
connector
first
check if our maybe of our openend points
are available maybe I can copy this to a
Jason file so that it's
that's properly formatted and more
readable
yeah so this is essentially what we get
back from our well-known data space
configuration endpoint that we have
configured through the um static file
server we now see here which models it
supports we see what protocols supported
and also which Authentication
Protocol um the next thing we also have
to check is our open ID
configuration because this is
what an actual uh consumer will use to
connect our services
to this is the other thing that gets
forwarded by
the that gets forwarded by the um by
api6 the verifier in this case um we can
here see the the issuer address of the
token provider we can see the
authorization endpoint we see the token
endpoint of the verifier um it provides
its jwks endpoint which is then used by
I6 to verify the the JWT tokens we see
the supported Scopes
um here the crown types which is
important for us in terms of our ID for
verifiable presentation flow so
essentially everything that the consumer
and its wallets need to know um to
actually exchange a credential with our
verifier with our verifier when someone
tries to connect our
services and
then uh what we also have to do is um
actually so if we now want to uh allow
our consumer to actually access the
services that we uh provide we have to
configure it inside our trusted issuers
list of the provider um that's why I
said we also put the trusted issuers
list of the provider at the public
endpoint
here um because we have to explicitly
tell that this this participant our
consumer um is allowed to issue those
credentials in our context um we could
configure it differently so that we a
trust every participant of the data
space um but I would like to make the
point that we have very fine CR control
contr from our a data space participant
on who is allowed to access what so
that's why we now will explicitly allow
our participant to uh
our um our consumer to actually access
this I just have to check where its
identity
was this one
so we will not register it at our
trusted
issuers
list now it's locally registered and now
we can uh test if our um authentication
authorization framework actually works
so first we will try to access our data
service so we're now basically in the
verification phase and we want to um act
as if we are in consumer of the data um
first we need to try basically to access
our data service um unauthorized so
without any authorization header um most
of you will know this endpoint as this
uh request as an NGS IID request so we
just try to get an entity
here okay our API Gateway now answered
with 401 authorization required which is
what we
expected therefore we now need to create
an
authorization um for the open ID for
verifiable presentation flow um we need
a a wallet for this usually so I will
create a wallet and it's called wallet
identity um I will not go into the
details of this here because this would
go into too much time um but it's very
similar to the way we create an Iden
what did I do
here I not change
to command is wrong sorry um we
essentially create the identity the same
way we did it for our participants so
now we have a wallet that also has an
identity which is is essentially the
identity of our user that acts on behalf
of the consumer and that's something
that for a normal user uh a wallet will
take care
of but just for a demonstration it's
much easier to do it that way now um I
think I also have to make
the the key available now yes
so now our key is available and we can
use the key that we created for our
local identity to exchange the user
credential that um we created earlier so
I stored it in uh environment variable
you can see
here
there and I exchange it through the um
oid for verifiable presentation
protocol with the
verifier I get a valid access token um
this uh is going through
this script but that's also something I
will go more into detail next week
because we won't have enough time today
for
that when I now use this access token to
access my data service um
hopefully it changed the response and it
happens exactly what uh what was
expected so we don't have a 401 anymore
but we have a 403 Forbidden that means
the open policy agent did not accept our
request which is expected because we
didn't connect create any policy to
actually allow our request um
I have an example policy here that we
will create um this will allow every
request to a certain type
of of uh
entities actually entities of type
Energy
report you can see this
here to any uh authenticated user and
for read uh requests if you want to know
more about odrl policies please have a
look at the am uh session from two weeks
ago um I talk about odl
policies uh more in this
session now we can do our uh request
again with the same access token and
instead of the forbitten we get an empty
list which is expected because we have a
cleanly installed data space
connector um and now we get an empty
list so this is essentially all steps
that we needed to verify that
everything's working um just to recate
we now have a trust anchor installed in
our kubernets cluster we have a
participant that is a consumer which can
issue identity which could issue
credentials to its users um we have a
provider
installed that can offer a data service
through the um and this data service is
secured through open ID for verifile
presentations and through odl policies
and we have proven that the consumer now
can access those data with uh with
issuing credentials to one of its users
um obviously you can configure much more
in in detail on all parts of the of the
components but as I mentioned earlier I
would uh highly recommend to check the
original charts if you want to do
special things with certain components
um but uh with just those uh relatively
reduced Val files um you should already
be able to set up the full data space
and to fulfill the normal um and the
normal tasks that you want to run inside
a data
space yeah with that we're essentially
at the end of today's presentation as
Jason mentioned I put all my
presentations in the standard place of
my presentations
folder um another important read is the
data space connect repository itself
which is linked at other points in the
presentation to you and I think this
question would obviously come um the
demonstration that I did today is
available in this deployment
demonstration repository so you could
exactly do every um command that I also
did in my presentation